**Name:** Durhenn Cortav  
**Race/Ancestry/Heritage:** Dwarf  
**Class & Level:** Fighter 5 (Champion)  
**Background:** Soldier  
**Alignment:** Lawful Neutral  
**Experience:** 6,825 xp

  

**ABILITY SCORES & ABILITIES**  
_(* includes +3 proficiency bonus; ** includes expertise, if any)_  
  
**Strength 20**  
+5 ... Strength Ability Checks  
+8 ... Athletics Skill  *  
300 lbs. ... Maximum Carrying Capacity  
600 lbs. ... Max. Push or Drag (Speed -5 ft.)  
600 lbs. ... Maximum Lift  
  
**Dexterity 12**  
+1 ... Dexterity Ability Checks  
+1 ... Dexterity Saving Throws  
+1 ... Acrobatics Skill  
+1 ... Sleight of Hand Skill  
+1 ... Stealth Skill  _(Disadv.)_

  
**Constitution 17**  
+3 ... Constitution Ability Checks  
+6 ... Constitution Saving Throws *  
  
**Intelligence 7**  
-2 ... Intelligence Ability Checks  
-2 ... Intelligence Saving Throws  
-2 ... Arcana Skill  
-2 ... History Skill  
-2 ... Investigation Skill  
-2 ... Nature Skill  
-2 ... Religion Skill  
  
**Wisdom 7**  
-2 ... Wisdom Ability Checks  
-2 ... Wisdom Saving Throws  
+1 ... Animal Handling Skill  *  
-2 ... Insight Skill  
-2 ... Medicine Skill  
+1 ... Perception Skill  *  
-2 ... Survival Skill  
  
**Charisma 9**  
-1 ... Charisma Ability Checks  
-1 ... Charisma Saving Throws  
-1 ... Deception Skill  
+2 ... Intimidation Skill  *  
-1 ... Performance Skill  
-1 ... Persuasion Skill

  

**COMBAT [PHB p. 189]**  
  
11 ... Passive Perception  
+1 ... Initiative Modifier  
  
**Armor Class 19** ... Armor worn: chain mail, shield  
  
**30 ft. Speed** ... Base distance per move  
  
**54 hit points** ... 5d10 Hit Dice  
  

**Battleaxe.** _Melee Weapon Attack:_ +8 to hit, reach 5 ft. _Hit:_ 1d8+5 slashing damage. (If used two-handed in melee, does 1d10+5 damage.) **+ Topple:** On hit, target must DC 16 CON save or fall prone.

  

**Javelin.** _Melee Weapon Attack:_ +8 to hit, reach 5 ft. _Hit:_ 1d6+5 piercing damage. (If thrown, normal range to 30 ft.; disadvantage long range 31 to 120 ft.) **+ Slow:** On damage, target's speed reduced by 10 ft.

  

**Fighting Style: Defense [PHB 2024, p. 209]:** In armor, gain +1 to AC.

  

**FEATURES, TRAITS, SPECIAL ABILITIES**  
  

**Soldier Background [PHB 2024, p. 185]**

• **Traits:** Former city guard. Owes debt to a vampire.

• **Ideal:** Never follow orders blindly.

• **Bond:** Owe life debt to comrade.

• **Flaw:** Jealous of others' success.

  

**Proficiencies & Languages**  
• **Proficiency Bonus:** +3  
• **Armor:** light armor, medium armor, heavy armor, shields  
• **Weapons:** simple weapons, martial weapons  
• **Tools:** gaming set (dice set)  
• **Saving Throws:** Strength, Constitution  
• **Skills:** Animal Handling, Athletics, Intimidation, Perception  
• **Languages:** Common, Dwarvish, Draconic

  

**Savage Attacker Feat [PHB 2024, p. 201]:** Once per turn, roll damage for a hit twice and use either damage total.  
  

**Dwarf Traits [PHB 2024, p. 188]**

• Creature Type: Humanoid

• Age: 72 years old

• Medium Size (4' 2", 163 lbs.)

• Darkvision (120 feet)

• Dwarven Resilience (versus poison)

• Dwarven Toughness (extra hit points)

• Stonecunning (gain Tremorsense 60 ft. for 10 min. as a bonus action, 3 times betw. long rests)

  

**Fighter Class Features [PHB 2024, p. 91]**

• Fighting Style (Defense)

• Second Wind (regain 1d10+5 h.p.)

• Weapon Mastery (4 weapons)

• Action Surge (extra non-Magic action in turn once betw. short rests)

• Tactical Mind (use Second Wind to boost ability check)

• Improved Critical (crit on 19 or 20)

• Remarkable Athlete (adv. on Initiative and Athletics rolls; on crit, move half speed withou op. attacks)

• Extra Attack (2/attack)

• Tactical Shift (on Second Wind, bonus action move half speed, no opporunity attacks)

**Fighting Style: Defense [PHB 2024, p. 209]:** In armor, gain +1 to AC.

  

**EQUIPMENT & TREASURE**

  

**Carried Gear [PHB 2024, p. 213]:** chain mail armor (AC 16), shield (AC +2), battleaxe, flail, greatsword, javelin, spear, shortbow and 20 arrows, dungeoneer's pack (backpack, a crowbar, a hammer, 10 pitons, 10 torches, a tinderbox, 10 days' rations, waterskin, 50 feet of hempen rope on the side), gaming set (dice set), set of traveler's clothes, healer's kit (bandages, salves, splints), quiver. (This load is about 210 lbs.; add 1 lb. per 50 coins carried.)

  
  

**Coins & Gems:** 661 gold pieces (gp); 69 silver pieces (sp); 12 copper pieces (cp); 9 gems (worth 50 gp each)

  

**REFERENCE**

  

Page number references...

**[PHB]** = _Dungeons & Dragons Player's Handbook (5th edition)_ by Mike Mearls and Jeremy Crawford, published Aug. 19, 2014, by Wizards of the Coast (ISBN-10: 0786965606; ISBN-13: 978-0786965601).

**[DMG]** = _Dungeons & Dragons Dungeon Master's Guide (5th edition)_ by Mike Mearls and Jeremy Crawford, published Dec. 9, 2014, by Wizards of the Coast (ISBN-10: 9780786965625; ISBN-13: 978-0786965625).

**[MM]** = _Dungeons & Dragons Monster Manual (5th edition)_ by Mike Mearls and Jeremy Crawford, published Sept. 30 2014, by Wizards of the Coast (ISBN-10: 0786965614; ISBN-13: 978-0786965618).

**[ERftLW]** = _Eberron: Rising from the Last War_ by Jeremy Crawford, James Wyatt and Keith Baker, published Nov. 19, 2019, by Wizards of the Coast (ISBN-10: 0786966890; ISBN-13: 978-0786966899).

**[GGtR]** = _Guildmasters' Guide To Ravnica_ by James Wyatt, Jeremy Crawford, published Nov. 20, 2018, by Wizards of the Coast (ISBN-10: 0786966599; ISBN-13: 978-0786966592).

**[MOoT]** = _Mythic Odysseys of Theros_ by F. Wesley Schneider, James Wyatt, published July 21, 2020, by Wizards of the Coast (ISBN-10: 0786967013; ISBN-13: 978-0786967018).

**[MToF]** = _Mordenkainen's Tome Of Foes_ by Mike Mearls and Jeremy Crawford, published May 29, 2018, by Wizards of the Coast (ISBN-10: 0786966246; ISBN-13: 978-0786966240).

**[MotM]** = _Monsters of the Multiverse_ by Jeremy Crawford and team, published May 17, 2022, by Wizards of the Coast (ISBN-13: 978-0786967872).

**[SJAiS]** = _Spelljammer: Adventures in Space_ by Jeremy Crawford and team, published Aug. 16, 2022, by Wizards of the Coast (ISBN-10: 0786968168; ISBN-13: 978-0786968169).

**[TCoE]** = _Tasha's Cauldron of Everything_, published Nov. 17, 2020, by Wizards of the Coast (ISBN-10: 0786967021; ISBN-13: 978-0786967025).

**[VGtM]** = _Volo's Guide To Monsters_ by Mike Mearls, published Nov. 15, 2016, by Wizards of the Coast (ISBN-10: 0786966017; ISBN-13: 978-0786966011).

**[XGtE]** = _Xanathar's Guide to Everything_ by Mike Mearls and Jeremy Crawford, published Nov. 21, 2017, by Wizards of the Coast (ISBN-10: 0786966114; ISBN-13: 978-0786966110).

Books are [available from a gaming store near you.](https://www.gama.org/page/flgs-locator)

**[Basic Rules]** = Dungeons & Dragons Basic Rules, available for download from [https://dnd.wizards.com/articles/features/basicrules](https://dnd.wizards.com/products/tabletop-games/rpg-products/player%E2%80%99s-companion)

**[EEPG]** = Elemental Evil Player's Companion, available for download from [https://dnd.wizards.com/products/tabletop-games/rpg-products/player's-companion](https://dnd.wizards.com/products/tabletop-games/rpg-products/player%E2%80%99s-companion)

**[UA Feb. 2015]** = Unearthed Arcana: Eberron (v.1), available for download from [https://dnd.wizards.com/articles/unearthed-arcana/unearthed-arcana-eberron](https://dnd.wizards.com/articles/unearthed-arcana/unearthed-arcana-eberron)

**[UA May 2015]** = Unearthed Arcana: Waterborne Adventures, available for download from [https://dnd.wizards.com/articles/unearthed-arcana/unearthed-arcana-waterborne-adventures](https://dnd.wizards.com/articles/unearthed-arcana/unearthed-arcana-waterborne-adventures)

**[UA August 2015]** = Unearthed Arcana: Modern Magic, available for download from [https://dnd.wizards.com/articles/unearthed-arcana/modern-magic](https://dnd.wizards.com/articles/unearthed-arcana/modern-magic). This site also uses Dan Helmick's [My New D20 Modern Campaign](https://dnd.wizards.com/articles/features/my-new-d20-modern-campaign) conversion notes from [his 2015 website article on Wizards.com](https://dnd.wizards.com/articles/features/my-new-d20-modern-campaign).

**[UA May 2018]** = Unearthed Arcana: Centaurs And Minotaurs, available for download from [https://dnd.wizards.com/articles/unearthed-arcana/centaurs-and-minotaurs](https://dnd.wizards.com/articles/unearthed-arcana/centaurs-and-minotaurs)

**[TP]** = The Tortle Package, see [https://dnd.wizards.com/products/tabletop-games/digital-only-rpg-products/tortle-package](https://dnd.wizards.com/products/tabletop-games/digital-only-rpg-products/tortle-package)

  
[**FREQUENTLY ASKED QUESTIONS**](https://fastcharacter.com/faq.htm)  
  
[**CONTACT**](mailto:fastcharacter@gmail.com) (especially about typos, glitches and othre errrors)  
  
Wizards of the Coast, Magic: The Gathering, and their logos are trademarks of Wizards of the Coast LLC in the United States and other countries. © 2009 Wizards. All Rights Reserved.  
  
This Web site is not affiliated with, endorsed, sponsored, or specifically approved by Wizards of the Coast LLC. This Web site may use the trademarks and other intellectual property of Wizards of the Coast LLC, which is permitted under [Wizards' Fan Site Policy](http://www.wizards.com/fankit/fantoolkitdnd.html). For example, DUNGEONS & DRAGONS®, D&D®, PLAYER'S HANDBOOK 2®, and DUNGEON MASTER'S GUIDE® are trademark[s] of Wizards of the Coast and D&D® core rules, game mechanics, characters and their distinctive likenesses are the property of the Wizards of the Coast. For more information about Wizards of the Coast or any of Wizards' trademarks or other intellectual property, please visit their website at [www.wizards.com](http://www.wizards.com/).