**Name:** Varog Knere  
**Race/Ancestry/Heritage:**  
**Class & Level:** Rogue 5 (Thief)  
**Background:** Urchin  
**Alignment:** Chaotic Neutral  
**Experience:** 6,825 xp

  

**ABILITY SCORES & ABILITIES**  
_(* includes +3 proficiency bonus; ** includes expertise, if any)_  
  
**Strength 10**  
+0 ... Strength Ability Checks  
+0 ... Strength Saving Throws  
+3 ... Athletics Skill  *  
150 lbs. ... Maximum Carrying Capacity  
300 lbs. ... Max. Push or Drag (Speed -5 ft.)  
300 lbs. ... Maximum Lift  
  
**Dexterity 18**  
+4 ... Dexterity Ability Checks  
+7 ... Dexterity Saving Throws *  
+4 ... Acrobatics Skill  
+10 ... Sleight of Hand Skill  **  
+10 ... Stealth Skill  **

  
**Constitution 12**  
+1 ... Constitution Ability Checks  
+1 ... Constitution Saving Throws  
  
**Intelligence 14**  
+2 ... Intelligence Ability Checks  
+5 ... Intelligence Saving Throws *  
+2 ... Arcana Skill  
+2 ... History Skill  
+2 ... Investigation Skill  
+2 ... Nature Skill  
+2 ... Religion Skill  
  
**Wisdom 8**  
-1 ... Wisdom Ability Checks  
-1 ... Wisdom Saving Throws  
-1 ... Animal Handling Skill  
-1 ... Insight Skill  
-1 ... Medicine Skill  
-1 ... Perception Skill  
-1 ... Survival Skill  
  
**Charisma 15**  
+2 ... Charisma Ability Checks  
+2 ... Charisma Saving Throws  
+2 ... Deception Skill  
+5 ... Intimidation Skill  *  
+5 ... Performance Skill  *  
+2 ... Persuasion Skill

  

**COMBAT [PHB p. 189]**  
  
9 ... Passive Perception  
+4 ... Initiative Modifier  
  
**Armor Class 15** ... Armor worn: leather armor  
  
**0 ft. Speed** ... Base distance per move  
  
**33 hit points** ... 5d8 Hit Dice  
  

**Rapier.** _Melee Weapon Attack:_ +7 to hit, reach 5 ft. _Hit:_ 1d8+4 piercing damage.

  

**Shortbow.** _Ranged Weapon Attack:_ +7 to hit. _Hit:_ 1d6+4 piercing damage. (Normal range to 80 ft.; disadvantage long range 81 to 320 ft. Must be used two-handed.) **+ Vex:** On hit, gain adv. on next attack on target before end of next turn.

  

**Dagger.** _Melee or Ranged Weapon Attack:_ +7 to hit, reach 5 ft. 1d4+4 piercing damage. (If thrown, normal range to 20 ft.; disadvantage long range 21 to 60 ft.) **+ Nick:** Make extra attack as part of attack action instead of bonus action once per turn.

  

**Sneak Attack**: Once per turn, deal +3d6 extra damage to one creature hit if attack with advantage using finesse or ranged weapon. Don't need advantage if an enemy of the target is within 5 feet of it, enemy isn't incapacitated, and you don't have disadvantage on attack.

  

**FEATURES, TRAITS, SPECIAL ABILITIES**  
  

**Urchin Background [PHB 2014, p. 141]**

• **Traits:** Hides when no one is looking. Cold manner.

• **Ideal:** Find a way to better life.

• **Bond:** Hated by a crimelord.

• **Flaw:** Lives off cheapest food.

  

**Proficiencies & Languages**  
• **Proficiency Bonus:** +3  
• **Armor:** light armor  
• **Weapons:** simple weapons, scimitar, shortsword, whip  
• **Tools:** thieves' tools  
• **Saving Throws:** Dexterity, Intelligence  
• **Skills:** Athletics, Intimidation, Performance, Sleight of Hand, Stealth  
• **Languages:** Common, Thieves' Cant

  

**Lucky Feat [PHB 2024, p. 201]:** Gain 3 Luck Points, each of which may give adv. on an ability check, save, or attack, or impose disadv. on one attacker targeting you. Regain expended points in a long rest.  
  
  

**Rogue Class Features [PHB 2024, p. 129]**

• Expertise (prof. noted with **)

• Sneak Attack (+3d6)

• Thieves' Cant (slang language)

• Weapon Mastery (2 weapons)

• Cunning Action (bonus action to Dash, Disengage, or Hide)

• Fast Hands (Sleight of Hand and utilize as bonus actions)

• Second-Story Work (climb at speed, DEX for jumping)

• Steady Aim (bonus action for adv. attack if not moving)

• Cunning Strike (-1d6 damage for Poison, Trip, or Withdraw; DC 15)

• Uncanny Dodge (reaction to half damage)

**Sneak Attack**: Once per turn, deal +3d6 extra damage to one creature hit if attack with advantage using finesse or ranged weapon. Don't need advantage if an enemy of the target is within 5 feet of it, enemy isn't incapacitated, and you don't have disadvantage on attack.

  

**EQUIPMENT & TREASURE**

  

**Carried Gear [PHB 2024, p. 213]:** leather armor (AC 11), rapier, shortsword, two (2) daggers, shortbow and 20 arrows, burglar's pack (backpack, 1,000 ball bearings in bag, 10-foot string, bell, 5 candles, crowbar, hammer, 10 pitons, hooded lantern, 2 flasks of oil, 5 days' rations, tinderbox, waterskin; 50-foot hempen rope), gaming set (dice set), thieves' tools (lockpicks, small file and pliers, tiny mirror), ammunition: arrows (20), bedroll, belt pouch, set of traveler's clothes, quiver. (This load is about 88.5 lbs.; add 1 lb. per 50 coins carried.)

  
  

**Coins & Gems:** 632 gold pieces (gp); 3 silver pieces (sp); 55 copper pieces (cp); 4 gems (worth 50 gp each)

  

**REFERENCE**

  

Page number references...

**[PHB]** = _Dungeons & Dragons Player's Handbook (5th edition)_ by Mike Mearls and Jeremy Crawford, published Aug. 19, 2014, by Wizards of the Coast (ISBN-10: 0786965606; ISBN-13: 978-0786965601).

**[DMG]** = _Dungeons & Dragons Dungeon Master's Guide (5th edition)_ by Mike Mearls and Jeremy Crawford, published Dec. 9, 2014, by Wizards of the Coast (ISBN-10: 9780786965625; ISBN-13: 978-0786965625).

**[MM]** = _Dungeons & Dragons Monster Manual (5th edition)_ by Mike Mearls and Jeremy Crawford, published Sept. 30 2014, by Wizards of the Coast (ISBN-10: 0786965614; ISBN-13: 978-0786965618).

**[ERftLW]** = _Eberron: Rising from the Last War_ by Jeremy Crawford, James Wyatt and Keith Baker, published Nov. 19, 2019, by Wizards of the Coast (ISBN-10: 0786966890; ISBN-13: 978-0786966899).

**[GGtR]** = _Guildmasters' Guide To Ravnica_ by James Wyatt, Jeremy Crawford, published Nov. 20, 2018, by Wizards of the Coast (ISBN-10: 0786966599; ISBN-13: 978-0786966592).

**[MOoT]** = _Mythic Odysseys of Theros_ by F. Wesley Schneider, James Wyatt, published July 21, 2020, by Wizards of the Coast (ISBN-10: 0786967013; ISBN-13: 978-0786967018).

**[MToF]** = _Mordenkainen's Tome Of Foes_ by Mike Mearls and Jeremy Crawford, published May 29, 2018, by Wizards of the Coast (ISBN-10: 0786966246; ISBN-13: 978-0786966240).

**[MotM]** = _Monsters of the Multiverse_ by Jeremy Crawford and team, published May 17, 2022, by Wizards of the Coast (ISBN-13: 978-0786967872).

**[SJAiS]** = _Spelljammer: Adventures in Space_ by Jeremy Crawford and team, published Aug. 16, 2022, by Wizards of the Coast (ISBN-10: 0786968168; ISBN-13: 978-0786968169).

**[TCoE]** = _Tasha's Cauldron of Everything_, published Nov. 17, 2020, by Wizards of the Coast (ISBN-10: 0786967021; ISBN-13: 978-0786967025).

**[VGtM]** = _Volo's Guide To Monsters_ by Mike Mearls, published Nov. 15, 2016, by Wizards of the Coast (ISBN-10: 0786966017; ISBN-13: 978-0786966011).

**[XGtE]** = _Xanathar's Guide to Everything_ by Mike Mearls and Jeremy Crawford, published Nov. 21, 2017, by Wizards of the Coast (ISBN-10: 0786966114; ISBN-13: 978-0786966110).

Books are [available from a gaming store near you.](https://www.gama.org/page/flgs-locator)

**[Basic Rules]** = Dungeons & Dragons Basic Rules, available for download from [https://dnd.wizards.com/articles/features/basicrules](https://dnd.wizards.com/products/tabletop-games/rpg-products/player%E2%80%99s-companion)

**[EEPG]** = Elemental Evil Player's Companion, available for download from [https://dnd.wizards.com/products/tabletop-games/rpg-products/player's-companion](https://dnd.wizards.com/products/tabletop-games/rpg-products/player%E2%80%99s-companion)

**[UA Feb. 2015]** = Unearthed Arcana: Eberron (v.1), available for download from [https://dnd.wizards.com/articles/unearthed-arcana/unearthed-arcana-eberron](https://dnd.wizards.com/articles/unearthed-arcana/unearthed-arcana-eberron)

**[UA May 2015]** = Unearthed Arcana: Waterborne Adventures, available for download from [https://dnd.wizards.com/articles/unearthed-arcana/unearthed-arcana-waterborne-adventures](https://dnd.wizards.com/articles/unearthed-arcana/unearthed-arcana-waterborne-adventures)

**[UA August 2015]** = Unearthed Arcana: Modern Magic, available for download from [https://dnd.wizards.com/articles/unearthed-arcana/modern-magic](https://dnd.wizards.com/articles/unearthed-arcana/modern-magic). This site also uses Dan Helmick's [My New D20 Modern Campaign](https://dnd.wizards.com/articles/features/my-new-d20-modern-campaign) conversion notes from [his 2015 website article on Wizards.com](https://dnd.wizards.com/articles/features/my-new-d20-modern-campaign).

**[UA May 2018]** = Unearthed Arcana: Centaurs And Minotaurs, available for download from [https://dnd.wizards.com/articles/unearthed-arcana/centaurs-and-minotaurs](https://dnd.wizards.com/articles/unearthed-arcana/centaurs-and-minotaurs)

**[TP]** = The Tortle Package, see [https://dnd.wizards.com/products/tabletop-games/digital-only-rpg-products/tortle-package](https://dnd.wizards.com/products/tabletop-games/digital-only-rpg-products/tortle-package)

  
[**FREQUENTLY ASKED QUESTIONS**](https://fastcharacter.com/faq.htm)  
  
[**CONTACT**](mailto:fastcharacter@gmail.com) (especially about typos, glitches and othre errrors)  
  
Wizards of the Coast, Magic: The Gathering, and their logos are trademarks of Wizards of the Coast LLC in the United States and other countries. © 2009 Wizards. All Rights Reserved.  
  
This Web site is not affiliated with, endorsed, sponsored, or specifically approved by Wizards of the Coast LLC. This Web site may use the trademarks and other intellectual property of Wizards of the Coast LLC, which is permitted under [Wizards' Fan Site Policy](http://www.wizards.com/fankit/fantoolkitdnd.html). For example, DUNGEONS & DRAGONS®, D&D®, PLAYER'S HANDBOOK 2®, and DUNGEON MASTER'S GUIDE® are trademark[s] of Wizards of the Coast and D&D® core rules, game mechanics, characters and their distinctive likenesses are the property of the Wizards of the Coast. For more information about Wizards of the Coast or any of Wizards' trademarks or other intellectual property, please visit their website at [www.wizards.com](http://www.wizards.com/).