**Name:** Sylus Melushade  
**Race/Ancestry/Heritage:** Half-Elf  
**Class & Level:** Sorcerer 5 (Wild Magic Sorcery)  
**Background:** Entertainer  
**Alignment:** Chaotic Neutral  
**Experience:** 6,890 xp

  

**ABILITY SCORES & ABILITIES**  
_(* includes +3 proficiency bonus; ** includes expertise, if any)_  
  
**Strength 10**  
+0 ... Strength Ability Checks  
+0 ... Strength Saving Throws  
+0 ... Athletics Skill  
150 lbs. ... Maximum Carrying Capacity  
300 lbs. ... Max. Push or Drag (Speed -5 ft.)  
300 lbs. ... Maximum Lift  
  
**Dexterity 14**  
+2 ... Dexterity Ability Checks  
+2 ... Dexterity Saving Throws  
+5 ... Acrobatics Skill  *  
+2 ... Sleight of Hand Skill  
+2 ... Stealth Skill

  
**Constitution 16**  
+3 ... Constitution Ability Checks  
+6 ... Constitution Saving Throws *  
  
**Intelligence 11**  
+0 ... Intelligence Ability Checks  
+0 ... Intelligence Saving Throws  
+3 ... Arcana Skill  *  
+0 ... History Skill  
+0 ... Investigation Skill  
+0 ... Nature Skill  
+3 ... Religion Skill  *  
  
**Wisdom 8**  
-1 ... Wisdom Ability Checks  
-1 ... Wisdom Saving Throws  
-1 ... Animal Handling Skill  
-1 ... Insight Skill  
-1 ... Medicine Skill  
-1 ... Perception Skill  
-1 ... Survival Skill  
  
**Charisma 20**  
+5 ... Charisma Ability Checks  
+8 ... Charisma Saving Throws *  
+8 ... Deception Skill  *  
+8 ... Intimidation Skill  *  
+8 ... Performance Skill  *  
+5 ... Persuasion Skill

  

**COMBAT [PHB p. 189]**  
  
9 ... Passive Perception  
+2 ... Initiative Modifier  
  
**Armor Class 12** ... Armor worn: none  
  
**30 ft. Speed** ... Base distance per move  
  
**37 hit points** ... 5d6 Hit Dice  
  

**Quarterstaff.** _Melee Weapon Attack:_ +3 to hit, reach 5 ft. _Hit:_ 1d6+0 bludgeoning damage. (If used two-handed in melee, does 1d8+0 damage.)

  

**Dagger.** _Melee or Ranged Weapon Attack:_ +5 to hit, reach 5 ft. 1d4+2 piercing damage. (If thrown, normal range to 20 ft.; disadvantage long range 21 to 60 ft.)

  

**_Sorcerous Burst_ Cantrip.** _Ranged Spell Attack:_ +8 to hit. _Hit:_ 2d8 choice of acid, cold, fire, lightning, poison, psychic, or thunder damage; extra d8s on rolls of 8.

  

**FEATURES, TRAITS, SPECIAL ABILITIES**  
  

**Entertainer Background [PHB 2024, p. 180]**

• **Traits:** Loves to give and take insults. Shrewd mind.

• **Ideal:** Just in it for the money.

• **Bond:** Spreads local gossip.

• **Flaw:** Forgets words when drunk.

  

**Proficiencies & Languages**  
• **Proficiency Bonus:** +3  
• **Armor:** none  
• **Weapons:** simple weapons  
• **Tools:** musical instrument (flute), musical instrument (horn), musical instrument (lute), musical instrument (lyre), musical instrument (pan flute), musical instrument (viol)  
• **Saving Throws:** Constitution, Charisma  
• **Skills:** Acrobatics, Arcana, Deception, Intimidation, Performance, Religion  
• **Languages:** Common, Sylvan

  

**Musician [PHB 2024, p. 201]:** Proficiencies (pan flute, horn, viol). In short or long rest, your song grants Heroic Inspiration to 3 allies.

  
  

**Half-Elf Traits [PHB p. 38]**

• Creature Type: Humanoid

• Age: 59 years old

• Medium Size (6' 0", 185 lbs.)

• Darkvision (60 feet)

• Fey Ancestry (vs. charm, no sleep)

  

**Sorcerer Class Features [PHB 2024, p. 139]**

• Innate Sorcery (spell save DC +1, adv. on spell attacks for 1 min., twice betw. long rests)

• Font of Magic (use up to **5 sorcery points** betw. long rests)

• Metamagic (spell effects)

• Creating Spell Slots (use 2 sorcery points for one 1st level spell slot, 3 pts. for 2nd level slot, 5 pts. 3rd level)

• Wild Magic Surge (if use spell slot, roll 1d20; on a 20, see PHB 2024, p. 150-151)

• Tide of Chaos (once betw. long rests, give yourself adv.; if repeated before rest, automatic Wild Magic Surge)

• Sorcerous Restoration (recover 3 sorcery points in short rest)

**Metamagic [PHB 2024, p. 141]**

• Heighten Spell (for 2 sorcery points, target saves vs. spell with disadv.)

• Quicken Spell (for 2 sorcery points, cast as bonus action instead of action)

**_Sorcerous Burst_ Cantrip.** _Ranged Spell Attack:_ +8 to hit. _Hit:_ 2d8 choice of acid, cold, fire, lightning, poison, psychic, or thunder damage; extra d8s on rolls of 8.

**Spellcasting [PHB 2024, p. 235]**

Spell Attack Modifier +8  
Spell Save DC 16

**Cantrips Known:** __Light_, _Mage Hand_, _Prestidigitation_, _Shocking Grasp_, _Sorcerous Burst__________

__  

**Prepared Spells**  

1st Level (4 slots): __Feather Fall_, _Magic Missile_, _Shield_, _Witch Bolt________

__

2nd Level (3 slots): __Alter Self_, _Enlarge/Reduce_, _Invisibility______

__

3rd Level (2 slots): __Counterspell_, _Dispel Magic____

__  

**EQUIPMENT & TREASURE**

  

**Carried Gear [PHB 2024, p. 213]:** two (2) daggers, quarterstaff, spear, dungeoneer's pack (backpack, a crowbar, a hammer, 10 pitons, 10 torches, a tinderbox, 10 days' rations, waterskin, 50 feet of hempen rope on the side), flute (musical instrument), lute (musical instrument), lyre (musical instrument), arcane focus: crystal, belt pouch, set of common clothes, set of costume clothes, two costumes, perfume, mirror. (This load is about 83 lbs.; add 1 lb. per 50 coins carried.)

  
  

**Coins & Gems:** 681 gold pieces (gp); 15 silver pieces (sp); 67 copper pieces (cp); 2 gems (worth 50 gp each)

  

**REFERENCE**

  

Page number references...

**[PHB]** = _Dungeons & Dragons Player's Handbook (5th edition)_ by Mike Mearls and Jeremy Crawford, published Aug. 19, 2014, by Wizards of the Coast (ISBN-10: 0786965606; ISBN-13: 978-0786965601).

**[DMG]** = _Dungeons & Dragons Dungeon Master's Guide (5th edition)_ by Mike Mearls and Jeremy Crawford, published Dec. 9, 2014, by Wizards of the Coast (ISBN-10: 9780786965625; ISBN-13: 978-0786965625).

**[MM]** = _Dungeons & Dragons Monster Manual (5th edition)_ by Mike Mearls and Jeremy Crawford, published Sept. 30 2014, by Wizards of the Coast (ISBN-10: 0786965614; ISBN-13: 978-0786965618).

**[ERftLW]** = _Eberron: Rising from the Last War_ by Jeremy Crawford, James Wyatt and Keith Baker, published Nov. 19, 2019, by Wizards of the Coast (ISBN-10: 0786966890; ISBN-13: 978-0786966899).

**[GGtR]** = _Guildmasters' Guide To Ravnica_ by James Wyatt, Jeremy Crawford, published Nov. 20, 2018, by Wizards of the Coast (ISBN-10: 0786966599; ISBN-13: 978-0786966592).

**[MOoT]** = _Mythic Odysseys of Theros_ by F. Wesley Schneider, James Wyatt, published July 21, 2020, by Wizards of the Coast (ISBN-10: 0786967013; ISBN-13: 978-0786967018).

**[MToF]** = _Mordenkainen's Tome Of Foes_ by Mike Mearls and Jeremy Crawford, published May 29, 2018, by Wizards of the Coast (ISBN-10: 0786966246; ISBN-13: 978-0786966240).

**[MotM]** = _Monsters of the Multiverse_ by Jeremy Crawford and team, published May 17, 2022, by Wizards of the Coast (ISBN-13: 978-0786967872).

**[SJAiS]** = _Spelljammer: Adventures in Space_ by Jeremy Crawford and team, published Aug. 16, 2022, by Wizards of the Coast (ISBN-10: 0786968168; ISBN-13: 978-0786968169).

**[TCoE]** = _Tasha's Cauldron of Everything_, published Nov. 17, 2020, by Wizards of the Coast (ISBN-10: 0786967021; ISBN-13: 978-0786967025).

**[VGtM]** = _Volo's Guide To Monsters_ by Mike Mearls, published Nov. 15, 2016, by Wizards of the Coast (ISBN-10: 0786966017; ISBN-13: 978-0786966011).

**[XGtE]** = _Xanathar's Guide to Everything_ by Mike Mearls and Jeremy Crawford, published Nov. 21, 2017, by Wizards of the Coast (ISBN-10: 0786966114; ISBN-13: 978-0786966110).

Books are [available from a gaming store near you.](https://www.gama.org/page/flgs-locator)

**[Basic Rules]** = Dungeons & Dragons Basic Rules, available for download from [https://dnd.wizards.com/articles/features/basicrules](https://dnd.wizards.com/products/tabletop-games/rpg-products/player%E2%80%99s-companion)

**[EEPG]** = Elemental Evil Player's Companion, available for download from [https://dnd.wizards.com/products/tabletop-games/rpg-products/player's-companion](https://dnd.wizards.com/products/tabletop-games/rpg-products/player%E2%80%99s-companion)

**[UA Feb. 2015]** = Unearthed Arcana: Eberron (v.1), available for download from [https://dnd.wizards.com/articles/unearthed-arcana/unearthed-arcana-eberron](https://dnd.wizards.com/articles/unearthed-arcana/unearthed-arcana-eberron)

**[UA May 2015]** = Unearthed Arcana: Waterborne Adventures, available for download from [https://dnd.wizards.com/articles/unearthed-arcana/unearthed-arcana-waterborne-adventures](https://dnd.wizards.com/articles/unearthed-arcana/unearthed-arcana-waterborne-adventures)

**[UA August 2015]** = Unearthed Arcana: Modern Magic, available for download from [https://dnd.wizards.com/articles/unearthed-arcana/modern-magic](https://dnd.wizards.com/articles/unearthed-arcana/modern-magic). This site also uses Dan Helmick's [My New D20 Modern Campaign](https://dnd.wizards.com/articles/features/my-new-d20-modern-campaign) conversion notes from [his 2015 website article on Wizards.com](https://dnd.wizards.com/articles/features/my-new-d20-modern-campaign).

**[UA May 2018]** = Unearthed Arcana: Centaurs And Minotaurs, available for download from [https://dnd.wizards.com/articles/unearthed-arcana/centaurs-and-minotaurs](https://dnd.wizards.com/articles/unearthed-arcana/centaurs-and-minotaurs)

**[TP]** = The Tortle Package, see [https://dnd.wizards.com/products/tabletop-games/digital-only-rpg-products/tortle-package](https://dnd.wizards.com/products/tabletop-games/digital-only-rpg-products/tortle-package)

  
[**FREQUENTLY ASKED QUESTIONS**](https://fastcharacter.com/faq.htm)  
  
[**CONTACT**](mailto:fastcharacter@gmail.com) (especially about typos, glitches and othre errrors)  
  
Wizards of the Coast, Magic: The Gathering, and their logos are trademarks of Wizards of the Coast LLC in the United States and other countries. © 2009 Wizards. All Rights Reserved.  
  
This Web site is not affiliated with, endorsed, sponsored, or specifically approved by Wizards of the Coast LLC. This Web site may use the trademarks and other intellectual property of Wizards of the Coast LLC, which is permitted under [Wizards' Fan Site Policy](http://www.wizards.com/fankit/fantoolkitdnd.html). For example, DUNGEONS & DRAGONS®, D&D®, PLAYER'S HANDBOOK 2®, and DUNGEON MASTER'S GUIDE® are trademark[s] of Wizards of the Coast and D&D® core rules, game mechanics, characters and their distinctive likenesses are the property of the Wizards of the Coast. For more information about Wizards of the Coast or any of Wizards' trademarks or other intellectual property, please visit their website at [www.wizards.com](http://www.wizards.com/).________