**Name:** Father Chuo  
**Race/Ancestry/Heritage:** Human  
**Class & Level:** Cleric 5 (Life Domain)  
**Background:** Acolyte  
**Alignment:** Neutral Evil  
**Experience:** 6,825 xp

  

**ABILITY SCORES & ABILITIES**  
_(* includes +3 proficiency bonus; ** includes expertise, if any)_  
  
**Strength 12**  
+1 ... Strength Ability Checks  
+1 ... Strength Saving Throws  
+1 ... Athletics Skill  
180 lbs. ... Maximum Carrying Capacity  
360 lbs. ... Max. Push or Drag (Speed -5 ft.)  
360 lbs. ... Maximum Lift  
  
**Dexterity 12**  
+1 ... Dexterity Ability Checks  
+1 ... Dexterity Saving Throws  
+1 ... Acrobatics Skill  
+1 ... Sleight of Hand Skill  
+1 ... Stealth Skill  _(Disadv.)_

  
**Constitution 14**  
+2 ... Constitution Ability Checks  
+2 ... Constitution Saving Throws  
  
**Intelligence 11**  
+0 ... Intelligence Ability Checks  
+0 ... Intelligence Saving Throws  
+0 ... Arcana Skill  
+3 ... History Skill  *  
+0 ... Investigation Skill  
+0 ... Nature Skill  
+3 ... Religion Skill  *  
  
**Wisdom 18**  
+4 ... Wisdom Ability Checks  
+7 ... Wisdom Saving Throws *  
+4 ... Animal Handling Skill  
+7 ... Insight Skill  *  
+7 ... Medicine Skill  *  
+7 ... Perception Skill  *  
+4 ... Survival Skill  
  
**Charisma 13**  
+1 ... Charisma Ability Checks  
+4 ... Charisma Saving Throws *  
+1 ... Deception Skill  
+1 ... Intimidation Skill  
+1 ... Performance Skill  
+1 ... Persuasion Skill

  

**COMBAT [PHB p. 189]**  
  
17 ... Passive Perception  
+1 ... Initiative Modifier  
  
**Armor Class 17** ... Armor worn: scale mail, shield  
  
**30 ft. Speed** ... Base distance per move  
  
**38 hit points** ... 5d8 Hit Dice  
  

**Mace.** _Melee Weapon Attack:_ +4 to hit, reach 5 ft. _Hit:_ 1d6+1 bludgeoning damage.

  

**Light Crossbow.** _Ranged Weapon Attack:_ +4 to hit. _Hit:_ 1d8+1 piercing damage. (Normal range to 80 ft.; disadvantage long range 81 to 320 ft. Must be used two-handed, reloading limits to only one attack per round regardless of extra attacks.)

  

**_Sacred Flame_ Cantrip.** _Ranged Spell Attack:_ Targets creature within 60 feet that you can see. That creature makes a DC 15 DEX saving throw or takes 2d8 radiant damage. (No damage if made save.)

  

**FEATURES, TRAITS, SPECIAL ABILITIES**  
  

**Acolyte Background [PHB 2024 p. 178]**

• **Traits:** Has divine visions. Stubborn nature.

• **Ideal:** Greed clarifies the essence of the evolutionary spirit.

• **Bond:** Impress faith's elders.

• **Flaw:** Infamous to faith's enemies.

  

**Proficiencies & Languages**  
• **Proficiency Bonus:** +3  
• **Armor:** light armor, medium armor, shields  
• **Weapons:** simple weapons  
• **Tools:** calligrapher's supplies  
• **Saving Throws:** Wisdom, Charisma  
• **Skills:** History, Insight, Medicine, Perception, Religion  
• **Languages:** Common, Halfling, Draconic

  

**Healer Feat [PHB 2024, p. 201]:** Healing kit allows treated to use one Hit Point Dice to recover h.p. Also, dice for healing (kit or magic) reroll 1 results.

**Magic Initiate (Cleric) [PHB 2024, p. 201]:** Know _Word of Radiance_ and _Spare the Dying_ cantrips, and can cast _Healing Word_ once betw. long rests (or with a spell slot). Your spell attack bonus is +3 and Spell Save is DC 11.  
  

**Human Traits [PHB 2024, p. 194]**

• Creature Type: Humanoid

• Age: 40 years old

• Medium Size (5' 9", 175 lbs.)

• Resourceful (gain Heroic Inspiration after each long Rest)

• Skillful (Perception proficiency)

• Versatile (Healer feat)

  

**Cleric Class Features [PHB7nbsp;2024, p. 69]**

• Divine Order: Thamaturge (add WIS modf. to Arcana and Religion checks)

• Channel Divinity (2 uses betw. long rests)

• Channel Divinity: Divine Spark (target in 30 ft. heals 1d8 + 4, or takes Necrotic or Radiant damage; CON save for half damage)

• Channel Divinity: Turn Undead (within 30 ft., WIS save or Frightened and Incapacitated for 1 min. or until damaged)

• Disciple of Life (on healing spells, add double spell slot's level to h.p. recovered)

• Life Domain Spells (always prepared)

$#149; Preserve Life (Channel Divinity to heal 25 h.p. among bloodied targets in 30 ft.)

• Sear Undead (turn also causes 4#d8s radiant damage)

• (6th level subclass feature)

**_Sacred Flame_ Cantrip.** _Ranged Spell Attack:_ Targets creature within 60 feet that you can see. That creature makes a DC 15 DEX saving throw or takes 2d8 radiant damage. (No damage if made save.)

**Spellcasting [PHB 2024, p. 235]**

Spell Attack Modifier +7  
Spell Save DC 15

**Cantrips Known:** __Guidance_, _Light_, _Sacred Flame_, _Spare the Dying_, _Thaumaturgy_, _Toll the Dead_, _Word of Radiance______________

__  

**Prepared Spells**  

1st Level (4 slots): __Bless_, _Create or Destroy Water_, _Cure Wounds_, _Guiding Bolt_, _Healing Word_, _Sanctuary_, _Shield of Faith______________

__

2nd Level (3 slots): __Aid_, _Continual Flame_, _Lesser Restoration_, _Silence________

__

3rd Level (2 slots): __Aura of Vitality_, _Mass Healing Word_, _Revivify_, _Spirit Guardians________

__  

**EQUIPMENT & TREASURE**

  

**Carried Gear [PHB 2024, p. 213]:** chain shirt (AC 13), scale mail (AC 14), shield (AC +2), mace, priest's pack (backpack, a blanket, 10 candles, a tinderbox, an alms box, 2 blocks of incense, a censer, vestments, 2 days' rations, waterskin), set of common clothes, holy symbol: amulet, calligrapher's supplies, prayer book, parchment (10 sheets), robe. (This load is about 155 lbs.; add 1 lb. per 50 coins carried.)

  
  

**Coins & Gems:** 612 gold pieces (gp); 66 silver pieces (sp); 72 copper pieces (cp); 4 gems (worth 50 gp each)

  

**REFERENCE**

  

Page number references...

**[PHB]** = _Dungeons & Dragons Player's Handbook (5th edition)_ by Mike Mearls and Jeremy Crawford, published Aug. 19, 2014, by Wizards of the Coast (ISBN-10: 0786965606; ISBN-13: 978-0786965601).

**[DMG]** = _Dungeons & Dragons Dungeon Master's Guide (5th edition)_ by Mike Mearls and Jeremy Crawford, published Dec. 9, 2014, by Wizards of the Coast (ISBN-10: 9780786965625; ISBN-13: 978-0786965625).

**[MM]** = _Dungeons & Dragons Monster Manual (5th edition)_ by Mike Mearls and Jeremy Crawford, published Sept. 30 2014, by Wizards of the Coast (ISBN-10: 0786965614; ISBN-13: 978-0786965618).

**[ERftLW]** = _Eberron: Rising from the Last War_ by Jeremy Crawford, James Wyatt and Keith Baker, published Nov. 19, 2019, by Wizards of the Coast (ISBN-10: 0786966890; ISBN-13: 978-0786966899).

**[GGtR]** = _Guildmasters' Guide To Ravnica_ by James Wyatt, Jeremy Crawford, published Nov. 20, 2018, by Wizards of the Coast (ISBN-10: 0786966599; ISBN-13: 978-0786966592).

**[MOoT]** = _Mythic Odysseys of Theros_ by F. Wesley Schneider, James Wyatt, published July 21, 2020, by Wizards of the Coast (ISBN-10: 0786967013; ISBN-13: 978-0786967018).

**[MToF]** = _Mordenkainen's Tome Of Foes_ by Mike Mearls and Jeremy Crawford, published May 29, 2018, by Wizards of the Coast (ISBN-10: 0786966246; ISBN-13: 978-0786966240).

**[MotM]** = _Monsters of the Multiverse_ by Jeremy Crawford and team, published May 17, 2022, by Wizards of the Coast (ISBN-13: 978-0786967872).

**[SJAiS]** = _Spelljammer: Adventures in Space_ by Jeremy Crawford and team, published Aug. 16, 2022, by Wizards of the Coast (ISBN-10: 0786968168; ISBN-13: 978-0786968169).

**[TCoE]** = _Tasha's Cauldron of Everything_, published Nov. 17, 2020, by Wizards of the Coast (ISBN-10: 0786967021; ISBN-13: 978-0786967025).

**[VGtM]** = _Volo's Guide To Monsters_ by Mike Mearls, published Nov. 15, 2016, by Wizards of the Coast (ISBN-10: 0786966017; ISBN-13: 978-0786966011).

**[XGtE]** = _Xanathar's Guide to Everything_ by Mike Mearls and Jeremy Crawford, published Nov. 21, 2017, by Wizards of the Coast (ISBN-10: 0786966114; ISBN-13: 978-0786966110).

Books are [available from a gaming store near you.](https://www.gama.org/page/flgs-locator)

**[Basic Rules]** = Dungeons & Dragons Basic Rules, available for download from [https://dnd.wizards.com/articles/features/basicrules](https://dnd.wizards.com/products/tabletop-games/rpg-products/player%E2%80%99s-companion)

**[EEPG]** = Elemental Evil Player's Companion, available for download from [https://dnd.wizards.com/products/tabletop-games/rpg-products/player's-companion](https://dnd.wizards.com/products/tabletop-games/rpg-products/player%E2%80%99s-companion)

**[UA Feb. 2015]** = Unearthed Arcana: Eberron (v.1), available for download from [https://dnd.wizards.com/articles/unearthed-arcana/unearthed-arcana-eberron](https://dnd.wizards.com/articles/unearthed-arcana/unearthed-arcana-eberron)

**[UA May 2015]** = Unearthed Arcana: Waterborne Adventures, available for download from [https://dnd.wizards.com/articles/unearthed-arcana/unearthed-arcana-waterborne-adventures](https://dnd.wizards.com/articles/unearthed-arcana/unearthed-arcana-waterborne-adventures)

**[UA August 2015]** = Unearthed Arcana: Modern Magic, available for download from [https://dnd.wizards.com/articles/unearthed-arcana/modern-magic](https://dnd.wizards.com/articles/unearthed-arcana/modern-magic). This site also uses Dan Helmick's [My New D20 Modern Campaign](https://dnd.wizards.com/articles/features/my-new-d20-modern-campaign) conversion notes from [his 2015 website article on Wizards.com](https://dnd.wizards.com/articles/features/my-new-d20-modern-campaign).

**[UA May 2018]** = Unearthed Arcana: Centaurs And Minotaurs, available for download from [https://dnd.wizards.com/articles/unearthed-arcana/centaurs-and-minotaurs](https://dnd.wizards.com/articles/unearthed-arcana/centaurs-and-minotaurs)

**[TP]** = The Tortle Package, see [https://dnd.wizards.com/products/tabletop-games/digital-only-rpg-products/tortle-package](https://dnd.wizards.com/products/tabletop-games/digital-only-rpg-products/tortle-package)

  
[**FREQUENTLY ASKED QUESTIONS**](https://fastcharacter.com/faq.htm)  
  
[**CONTACT**](mailto:fastcharacter@gmail.com) (especially about typos, glitches and othre errrors)  
  
Wizards of the Coast, Magic: The Gathering, and their logos are trademarks of Wizards of the Coast LLC in the United States and other countries. © 2009 Wizards. All Rights Reserved.  
  
This Web site is not affiliated with, endorsed, sponsored, or specifically approved by Wizards of the Coast LLC. This Web site may use the trademarks and other intellectual property of Wizards of the Coast LLC, which is permitted under [Wizards' Fan Site Policy](http://www.wizards.com/fankit/fantoolkitdnd.html). For example, DUNGEONS & DRAGONS®, D&D®, PLAYER'S HANDBOOK 2®, and DUNGEON MASTER'S GUIDE® are trademark[s] of Wizards of the Coast and D&D® core rules, game mechanics, characters and their distinctive likenesses are the property of the Wizards of the Coast. For more information about Wizards of the Coast or any of Wizards' trademarks or other intellectual property, please visit their website at [www.wizards.com](http://www.wizards.com/).________