**Name:** Ennanwel Sasek  
**Race/Ancestry/Heritage:** High Elf  
**Class & Level:** Wizard 5 (Evoker)  
**Background:** Sage  
**Alignment:** Chaotic Good  
**Experience:** 6,890 xp

  

**ABILITY SCORES & ABILITIES**  
_(* includes +3 proficiency bonus; ** includes expertise, if any)_  
  
**Strength 6**  
-2 ... Strength Ability Checks  
-2 ... Strength Saving Throws  
-2 ... Athletics Skill  
90 lbs. ... Maximum Carrying Capacity  
180 lbs. ... Max. Push or Drag (Speed -5 ft.)  
180 lbs. ... Maximum Lift  
  
**Dexterity 16**  
+3 ... Dexterity Ability Checks  
+3 ... Dexterity Saving Throws  
+3 ... Acrobatics Skill  
+3 ... Sleight of Hand Skill  
+3 ... Stealth Skill

  
**Constitution 18**  
+4 ... Constitution Ability Checks  
+4 ... Constitution Saving Throws  
  
**Intelligence 20**  
+5 ... Intelligence Ability Checks  
+8 ... Intelligence Saving Throws *  
+11 ... Arcana Skill  **  
+8 ... History Skill  *  
+8 ... Investigation Skill  *  
+5 ... Nature Skill  
+5 ... Religion Skill  
  
**Wisdom 10**  
+0 ... Wisdom Ability Checks  
+3 ... Wisdom Saving Throws *  
+0 ... Animal Handling Skill  
+3 ... Insight Skill  *  
+3 ... Medicine Skill  *  
+3 ... Perception Skill  *  
+3 ... Survival Skill  *  
  
**Charisma 8**  
-1 ... Charisma Ability Checks  
-1 ... Charisma Saving Throws  
-1 ... Deception Skill  
-1 ... Intimidation Skill  
-1 ... Performance Skill  
-1 ... Persuasion Skill

  

**COMBAT [PHB p. 189]**  
  
13 ... Passive Perception  
+3 ... Initiative Modifier  
  
**Armor Class 13** ... Armor worn: none  
  
**30 ft. Speed** ... Base distance per move  
  
**42 hit points** ... 5d6 Hit Dice  
  

**Quarterstaff.** _Melee Weapon Attack:_ +1 to hit, reach 5 ft. _Hit:_ 1d6-2 bludgeoning damage. (If used two-handed in melee, does 1d8-2 damage.)

  

**Dagger.** _Melee or Ranged Weapon Attack:_ +6 to hit, reach 5 ft. 1d4+3 piercing damage. (If thrown, normal range to 20 ft.; disadvantage long range 21 to 60 ft.)

  

**_Fire Bolt_ Cantrip.** _Ranged Spell Attack:_ +8 to hit, targets one creature or object within 120 ft. range. _Hit:_ 2d10 fire damage and unattended flammable objects catch on fire.

  

**FEATURES, TRAITS, SPECIAL ABILITIES**  
  

**Sage Background [PHB 2024, p. 183]**

• **Traits:** Collects and reads books non-stop. Afraid of mind control.

• **Ideal:** Disprove a rival's theory.

• **Bond:** Noble patron funds work.

• **Flaw:** Often skips personal care.

  

**Proficiencies & Languages**  
• **Proficiency Bonus:** +3  
• **Armor:** none  
• **Weapons:** simple weapons  
• **Tools:** calligrapher's supplies  
• **Saving Throws:** Intelligence, Wisdom  
• **Skills:** Arcana, History, Insight, Investigation, Medicine, Perception, Survival  
• **Languages:** Common, Dwarvish, Elvish

  

**Magic Initiate (Wizard) [PHB 2024, p. 201]:** Know the _Ray of Frost_ and _Minor Illusion_ cantrips, and can cast _Witch Bolt_ once betw. long rests (or with a spell slot). Your spell attack bonus is +3 and Spell Save is DC 11.  
  

**High Elf Traits [PHB 2024, p. 189-190]**

• Creature Type: Humanoid (Fey lineage)

• Age: 234 years old

• Medium Size (5' 10", 170 lbs.)

• Darkvision (60 feet)

• Elven Lineage (_Prestidigitation_ cantrip; _Detect Magic_ (+8) and _Misty Step_ each once betw. long rests or via spell slot)

• Fey Ancestry (vs. Charmed)

• Keen Senses (Insight, Perception, Survival)

• Trance (4 hrs. as 8 hrs. sleep)

  

**Wizard Class Features [PHB 2024, p. 165]**

• Ritual Adept (cast unprepared spells from spellbook)

• Arcane Recovery (recover 3 spell slots on short rest)

• Evocation Savant (automatic spells to spellbook)

•Potent Cantrip (cantrip miss does half damage)

• Memorize Spell (replace prepared spell on short rest)

**_Fire Bolt_ Cantrip.** _Ranged Spell Attack:_ +8 to hit, targets one creature or object within 120 ft. range. _Hit:_ 2d10 fire damage and unattended flammable objects catch on fire.

**Spellcasting [PHB 2024, p. 235]**

Spell Attack Modifier +8  
Spell Save DC 16

**Cantrips Known:** __Fire Bolt_, _Light_, _Mage Hand_, _Minor Illusion_, _Prestidigitation_, _Ray of Frost_, _Toll the Dead______________

__  

**Prepared Spells**  

1st Level (4 slots): __Burning Hands_, _Charm Person_, _Comprehend Languages_, _Mage Armor_, _Magic Missile_, _Witch Bolt____________

__

2nd Level (3 slots): __Enhance Ability_, _Flaming Sphere_, _Knock______

__

3rd Level (2 slots): __Dispel Magic_, _Fireball____

__  

**EQUIPMENT & TREASURE**

  

**Carried Gear [PHB 2024, p. 213]:** two (2) daggers, quarterstaff, spear, scholar's pack (backpack, book of lore, bottle of ink, ink pen, 10 sheets of parchment, a little bag of sand, a small knife), calligrapher's supplies (pens, papers, special inks), arcane focus: staff, belt pouch, set of common clothes, robes, spellbook, book (history), parchment (8 sheets). (This load is about 39 lbs.; add 1 lb. per 50 coins carried.)

  
  

**Coins & Gems:** 604 gold pieces (gp); 36 silver pieces (sp); 59 copper pieces (cp); 3 gems (worth 50 gp each)

  

**REFERENCE**

  

Page number references...

**[PHB]** = _Dungeons & Dragons Player's Handbook (5th edition)_ by Mike Mearls and Jeremy Crawford, published Aug. 19, 2014, by Wizards of the Coast (ISBN-10: 0786965606; ISBN-13: 978-0786965601).

**[DMG]** = _Dungeons & Dragons Dungeon Master's Guide (5th edition)_ by Mike Mearls and Jeremy Crawford, published Dec. 9, 2014, by Wizards of the Coast (ISBN-10: 9780786965625; ISBN-13: 978-0786965625).

**[MM]** = _Dungeons & Dragons Monster Manual (5th edition)_ by Mike Mearls and Jeremy Crawford, published Sept. 30 2014, by Wizards of the Coast (ISBN-10: 0786965614; ISBN-13: 978-0786965618).

**[ERftLW]** = _Eberron: Rising from the Last War_ by Jeremy Crawford, James Wyatt and Keith Baker, published Nov. 19, 2019, by Wizards of the Coast (ISBN-10: 0786966890; ISBN-13: 978-0786966899).

**[GGtR]** = _Guildmasters' Guide To Ravnica_ by James Wyatt, Jeremy Crawford, published Nov. 20, 2018, by Wizards of the Coast (ISBN-10: 0786966599; ISBN-13: 978-0786966592).

**[MOoT]** = _Mythic Odysseys of Theros_ by F. Wesley Schneider, James Wyatt, published July 21, 2020, by Wizards of the Coast (ISBN-10: 0786967013; ISBN-13: 978-0786967018).

**[MToF]** = _Mordenkainen's Tome Of Foes_ by Mike Mearls and Jeremy Crawford, published May 29, 2018, by Wizards of the Coast (ISBN-10: 0786966246; ISBN-13: 978-0786966240).

**[MotM]** = _Monsters of the Multiverse_ by Jeremy Crawford and team, published May 17, 2022, by Wizards of the Coast (ISBN-13: 978-0786967872).

**[SJAiS]** = _Spelljammer: Adventures in Space_ by Jeremy Crawford and team, published Aug. 16, 2022, by Wizards of the Coast (ISBN-10: 0786968168; ISBN-13: 978-0786968169).

**[TCoE]** = _Tasha's Cauldron of Everything_, published Nov. 17, 2020, by Wizards of the Coast (ISBN-10: 0786967021; ISBN-13: 978-0786967025).

**[VGtM]** = _Volo's Guide To Monsters_ by Mike Mearls, published Nov. 15, 2016, by Wizards of the Coast (ISBN-10: 0786966017; ISBN-13: 978-0786966011).

**[XGtE]** = _Xanathar's Guide to Everything_ by Mike Mearls and Jeremy Crawford, published Nov. 21, 2017, by Wizards of the Coast (ISBN-10: 0786966114; ISBN-13: 978-0786966110).

Books are [available from a gaming store near you.](https://www.gama.org/page/flgs-locator)

**[Basic Rules]** = Dungeons & Dragons Basic Rules, available for download from [https://dnd.wizards.com/articles/features/basicrules](https://dnd.wizards.com/products/tabletop-games/rpg-products/player%E2%80%99s-companion)

**[EEPG]** = Elemental Evil Player's Companion, available for download from [https://dnd.wizards.com/products/tabletop-games/rpg-products/player's-companion](https://dnd.wizards.com/products/tabletop-games/rpg-products/player%E2%80%99s-companion)

**[UA Feb. 2015]** = Unearthed Arcana: Eberron (v.1), available for download from [https://dnd.wizards.com/articles/unearthed-arcana/unearthed-arcana-eberron](https://dnd.wizards.com/articles/unearthed-arcana/unearthed-arcana-eberron)

**[UA May 2015]** = Unearthed Arcana: Waterborne Adventures, available for download from [https://dnd.wizards.com/articles/unearthed-arcana/unearthed-arcana-waterborne-adventures](https://dnd.wizards.com/articles/unearthed-arcana/unearthed-arcana-waterborne-adventures)

**[UA August 2015]** = Unearthed Arcana: Modern Magic, available for download from [https://dnd.wizards.com/articles/unearthed-arcana/modern-magic](https://dnd.wizards.com/articles/unearthed-arcana/modern-magic). This site also uses Dan Helmick's [My New D20 Modern Campaign](https://dnd.wizards.com/articles/features/my-new-d20-modern-campaign) conversion notes from [his 2015 website article on Wizards.com](https://dnd.wizards.com/articles/features/my-new-d20-modern-campaign).

**[UA May 2018]** = Unearthed Arcana: Centaurs And Minotaurs, available for download from [https://dnd.wizards.com/articles/unearthed-arcana/centaurs-and-minotaurs](https://dnd.wizards.com/articles/unearthed-arcana/centaurs-and-minotaurs)

**[TP]** = The Tortle Package, see [https://dnd.wizards.com/products/tabletop-games/digital-only-rpg-products/tortle-package](https://dnd.wizards.com/products/tabletop-games/digital-only-rpg-products/tortle-package)

  
[**FREQUENTLY ASKED QUESTIONS**](https://fastcharacter.com/faq.htm)  
  
[**CONTACT**](mailto:fastcharacter@gmail.com) (especially about typos, glitches and othre errrors)  
  
Wizards of the Coast, Magic: The Gathering, and their logos are trademarks of Wizards of the Coast LLC in the United States and other countries. © 2009 Wizards. All Rights Reserved.  
  
This Web site is not affiliated with, endorsed, sponsored, or specifically approved by Wizards of the Coast LLC. This Web site may use the trademarks and other intellectual property of Wizards of the Coast LLC, which is permitted under [Wizards' Fan Site Policy](http://www.wizards.com/fankit/fantoolkitdnd.html). For example, DUNGEONS & DRAGONS®, D&D®, PLAYER'S HANDBOOK 2®, and DUNGEON MASTER'S GUIDE® are trademark[s] of Wizards of the Coast and D&D® core rules, game mechanics, characters and their distinctive likenesses are the property of the Wizards of the Coast. For more information about Wizards of the Coast or any of Wizards' trademarks or other intellectual property, please visit their website at [www.wizards.com](http://www.wizards.com/).________