**Name:** Mehem  
**Race/Ancestry/Heritage:** Tiefling (Abyssal)  
**Class & Level:** Bard 5 (College of Lore)  
**Background:** Charlatan  
**Alignment:** Chaotic Neutral  
**Experience:** 6,760 xp

  

**ABILITY SCORES & ABILITIES**  
_(* includes +3 proficiency bonus; ** includes expertise, if any)_  
  
**Strength 11**  
+0 ... Strength Ability Checks  
+0 ... Strength Saving Throws  
+1 ... Athletics Skill  
165 lbs. ... Maximum Carrying Capacity  
330 lbs. ... Max. Push or Drag (Speed -5 ft.)  
330 lbs. ... Maximum Lift  
  
**Dexterity 18**  
+4 ... Dexterity Ability Checks  
+7 ... Dexterity Saving Throws *  
+5 ... Acrobatics Skill  
+7 ... Sleight of Hand Skill  *  
+7 ... Stealth Skill  *

  
**Constitution 14**  
+2 ... Constitution Ability Checks  
+2 ... Constitution Saving Throws  
  
**Intelligence 14**  
+2 ... Intelligence Ability Checks  
+2 ... Intelligence Saving Throws  
+5 ... Arcana Skill  *  
+5 ... History Skill  *  
+5 ... Investigation Skill  *  
+5 ... Nature Skill  *  
+3 ... Religion Skill  
  
**Wisdom 12**  
+1 ... Wisdom Ability Checks  
+1 ... Wisdom Saving Throws  
+2 ... Animal Handling Skill  
+4 ... Insight Skill  *  
+2 ... Medicine Skill  
+4 ... Perception Skill  *  
+2 ... Survival Skill  
  
**Charisma 20**  
+5 ... Charisma Ability Checks  
+8 ... Charisma Saving Throws *  
+8 ... Deception Skill  *  
+6 ... Intimidation Skill  
+8 ... Performance Skill  *  
+8 ... Persuasion Skill  *

  

**COMBAT [PHB p. 189]**  
  
14 ... Passive Perception  
+5 ... Initiative Modifier  
  
**Armor Class 15** ... Armor worn: leather armor  
  
**30 ft. Speed** ... Base distance per move  
  
**38 hit points** ... 5d8 Hit Dice  
  

**Dagger.** _Melee or Ranged Weapon Attack:_ +7 to hit, reach 5 ft. 1d4+4 piercing damage. (If thrown, normal range to 20 ft.; disadvantage long range 21 to 60 ft.)

  

**Dagger (offhand, two-weapon fighting as bonus action).** _Melee or Ranged Weapon Attack:_ +7 to hit, reach 5 ft. 1d4 piercing damage. (If thrown, normal range to 20 ft.; disadvantage long range 21 to 60 ft.)

  

**_Vicious Mockery_ Cantrip.** _Ranged Spell Attack:_ Target within 60 feet that can hear you must make a DC 16 WIS saving throw or take 2d4 psychic damage and have disadvantage on next attack made before the end of its next turn. (No damage if made save.)

  

**FEATURES, TRAITS, SPECIAL ABILITIES**  
  

**Charlatan Background [PHB 2004, p. 179]**

• **Traits:** Constantly falling in love. Strict manner.

• **Ideal:** Friends come before schemes.

• **Bond:** Donates to like-minded temples.

• **Flaw:** Believes own lies.

  

**Proficiencies & Languages**  
• **Proficiency Bonus:** +3  
• **Armor:** light armor  
• **Weapons:** simple weapons  
• **Tools:** forgery kit, musical instrument (flute), musical instrument (lute), musical instrument (lyre)  
• **Saving Throws:** Dexterity, Charisma  
• **Skills:** Arcana, Deception, History, Insight, Investigation, Nature, Perception, Performance, Persuasion, Sleight of Hand, Stealth  
• **Languages:** Common, Halfling, Orc

  

**Skilled Feat [PHB 2024, p. 201]:** Additional proficiencies (History, Persuasion, and Perception).  
  

**Tiefling Traits [PHB 2024, p. 197]**

• Creature Type: Humanoid

• Age: 25 years old

• Medium Size (6' 3", 285 lbs.)

• Darkvision (60 feet)

• Fiendish Lineage (_Poison Spray_ cantrip; _Ray of Sickness_ (+8) and _Hold Person_ (DC 16 WIS save) each once betw. long rests or via spell slot)

• Damage Resistance (vs. poison damage)

• Otherworldly Presence (_Thaumaturgy_ cantrip)

  

**Bard Class Features [PHB 2024, p. 59]**

• Bardic Inspiration (d8) (5/day)

• Jack of All Trades (non-prof. bonus)

• Bonus Proficiencies (added)

• Cutting Words (reaction to use Bardic Die to change damage, ability check, or attack roll)

• Font of Inspiration (short rest resets)

• Expertise (prof. noted with **)

**_Vicious Mockery_ Cantrip.** _Ranged Spell Attack:_ Target within 60 feet that can hear you must make a DC 16 WIS saving throw or take 2d4 psychic damage and have disadvantage on next attack made before the end of its next turn. (No damage if made save.)

**Spellcasting [PHB 2024, p. 235]**

Spell Attack Modifier +8  
Spell Save DC 16

**Cantrips Known:** __Dancing Lights_, _Minor Illusion_, _Vicious Mockery______

__  

**Prepared Spells**  

1st Level (4 slots): __Detect Magic_, _Dissonant Whispers_, _Faerie Fire_, _Silent Image_, _Tasha's Hideous Laughter__________

__

2nd Level (3 slots): __Blindness/Deafness_, _Enlarge/Reduce____

__

3rd Level (2 slots): __Major Image_, _Tongues____

__  

**EQUIPMENT & TREASURE**

  

**Carried Gear [PHB 2024, p. 213]:** leather armor (AC 11), rapier, dagger, two (2) daggers, entertainer's pack (backpack, a bedroll, 2 costumes, 5 candles, 5 days' rations, a waterskin, disguise kit), lyre (musical instrument), belt pouch, set of fine clothes, costume. (This load is about 71 lbs.; add 1 lb. per 50 coins carried.)

  
  

**Coins & Gems:** 734 gold pieces (gp); 67 silver pieces (sp); 60 copper pieces (cp); 4 gems (worth 50 gp each)

  

**REFERENCE**

  

Page number references...

**[PHB]** = _Dungeons & Dragons Player's Handbook (5th edition)_ by Mike Mearls and Jeremy Crawford, published Aug. 19, 2014, by Wizards of the Coast (ISBN-10: 0786965606; ISBN-13: 978-0786965601).

**[DMG]** = _Dungeons & Dragons Dungeon Master's Guide (5th edition)_ by Mike Mearls and Jeremy Crawford, published Dec. 9, 2014, by Wizards of the Coast (ISBN-10: 9780786965625; ISBN-13: 978-0786965625).

**[MM]** = _Dungeons & Dragons Monster Manual (5th edition)_ by Mike Mearls and Jeremy Crawford, published Sept. 30 2014, by Wizards of the Coast (ISBN-10: 0786965614; ISBN-13: 978-0786965618).

**[ERftLW]** = _Eberron: Rising from the Last War_ by Jeremy Crawford, James Wyatt and Keith Baker, published Nov. 19, 2019, by Wizards of the Coast (ISBN-10: 0786966890; ISBN-13: 978-0786966899).

**[GGtR]** = _Guildmasters' Guide To Ravnica_ by James Wyatt, Jeremy Crawford, published Nov. 20, 2018, by Wizards of the Coast (ISBN-10: 0786966599; ISBN-13: 978-0786966592).

**[MOoT]** = _Mythic Odysseys of Theros_ by F. Wesley Schneider, James Wyatt, published July 21, 2020, by Wizards of the Coast (ISBN-10: 0786967013; ISBN-13: 978-0786967018).

**[MToF]** = _Mordenkainen's Tome Of Foes_ by Mike Mearls and Jeremy Crawford, published May 29, 2018, by Wizards of the Coast (ISBN-10: 0786966246; ISBN-13: 978-0786966240).

**[MotM]** = _Monsters of the Multiverse_ by Jeremy Crawford and team, published May 17, 2022, by Wizards of the Coast (ISBN-13: 978-0786967872).

**[SJAiS]** = _Spelljammer: Adventures in Space_ by Jeremy Crawford and team, published Aug. 16, 2022, by Wizards of the Coast (ISBN-10: 0786968168; ISBN-13: 978-0786968169).

**[TCoE]** = _Tasha's Cauldron of Everything_, published Nov. 17, 2020, by Wizards of the Coast (ISBN-10: 0786967021; ISBN-13: 978-0786967025).

**[VGtM]** = _Volo's Guide To Monsters_ by Mike Mearls, published Nov. 15, 2016, by Wizards of the Coast (ISBN-10: 0786966017; ISBN-13: 978-0786966011).

**[XGtE]** = _Xanathar's Guide to Everything_ by Mike Mearls and Jeremy Crawford, published Nov. 21, 2017, by Wizards of the Coast (ISBN-10: 0786966114; ISBN-13: 978-0786966110).

Books are [available from a gaming store near you.](https://www.gama.org/page/flgs-locator)

**[Basic Rules]** = Dungeons & Dragons Basic Rules, available for download from [https://dnd.wizards.com/articles/features/basicrules](https://dnd.wizards.com/products/tabletop-games/rpg-products/player%E2%80%99s-companion)

**[EEPG]** = Elemental Evil Player's Companion, available for download from [https://dnd.wizards.com/products/tabletop-games/rpg-products/player's-companion](https://dnd.wizards.com/products/tabletop-games/rpg-products/player%E2%80%99s-companion)

**[UA Feb. 2015]** = Unearthed Arcana: Eberron (v.1), available for download from [https://dnd.wizards.com/articles/unearthed-arcana/unearthed-arcana-eberron](https://dnd.wizards.com/articles/unearthed-arcana/unearthed-arcana-eberron)

**[UA May 2015]** = Unearthed Arcana: Waterborne Adventures, available for download from [https://dnd.wizards.com/articles/unearthed-arcana/unearthed-arcana-waterborne-adventures](https://dnd.wizards.com/articles/unearthed-arcana/unearthed-arcana-waterborne-adventures)

**[UA August 2015]** = Unearthed Arcana: Modern Magic, available for download from [https://dnd.wizards.com/articles/unearthed-arcana/modern-magic](https://dnd.wizards.com/articles/unearthed-arcana/modern-magic). This site also uses Dan Helmick's [My New D20 Modern Campaign](https://dnd.wizards.com/articles/features/my-new-d20-modern-campaign) conversion notes from [his 2015 website article on Wizards.com](https://dnd.wizards.com/articles/features/my-new-d20-modern-campaign).

**[UA May 2018]** = Unearthed Arcana: Centaurs And Minotaurs, available for download from [https://dnd.wizards.com/articles/unearthed-arcana/centaurs-and-minotaurs](https://dnd.wizards.com/articles/unearthed-arcana/centaurs-and-minotaurs)

**[TP]** = The Tortle Package, see [https://dnd.wizards.com/products/tabletop-games/digital-only-rpg-products/tortle-package](https://dnd.wizards.com/products/tabletop-games/digital-only-rpg-products/tortle-package)

  
[**FREQUENTLY ASKED QUESTIONS**](https://fastcharacter.com/faq.htm)  
  
[**CONTACT**](mailto:fastcharacter@gmail.com) (especially about typos, glitches and othre errrors)  
  
Wizards of the Coast, Magic: The Gathering, and their logos are trademarks of Wizards of the Coast LLC in the United States and other countries. © 2009 Wizards. All Rights Reserved.  
  
This Web site is not affiliated with, endorsed, sponsored, or specifically approved by Wizards of the Coast LLC. This Web site may use the trademarks and other intellectual property of Wizards of the Coast LLC, which is permitted under [Wizards' Fan Site Policy](http://www.wizards.com/fankit/fantoolkitdnd.html). For example, DUNGEONS & DRAGONS®, D&D®, PLAYER'S HANDBOOK 2®, and DUNGEON MASTER'S GUIDE® are trademark[s] of Wizards of the Coast and D&D® core rules, game mechanics, characters and their distinctive likenesses are the property of the Wizards of the Coast. For more information about Wizards of the Coast or any of Wizards' trademarks or other intellectual property, please visit their website at [www.wizards.com](http://www.wizards.com/).________